>> Melkey: So we're gonna create
a light to, it's two functions, but
one is like a gimme.
The one that actually matters is
going to be the CreateWorkout.
So we're gonna do a func, we're gonna
set a method receiver as pg, and
this is gonna be our PostgresWorkoutStore,
I'm gonna call this CreateWorkout.
Now, the CreateWorkout we are about
to define with the arguments and
the return have to be the exact same
that we defined it in a few lines
above to the create workout
interface method up there, okay?
So to do that, we'll just do
name is gonna be workout, but
the type is what really matters.
It's gonna be a pointer to workout, okay?
And just like our interface dictates,
it has to return a type Workout or
a pointer to Workout and an error, okay?
So here we're gonna actually
get pretty deep into the SQL.
Here, we're gonna start a transaction,
tx error is going to be pg.db.Begin.
This is gonna tell us we're gonna do
a transaction which we can commit
at the end.
The reason I wanna commit this transaction
at the end is because our workout is not
only gonna have it's own workout property,
but remember all those one too many
relationships, those also need to be
committed into the workout entry database.
And if something happens in between, let's
say we're about to commit our workout,
something like freezes our
communication channel and
we don't have the workout entries,
we're actually going against asset
principles in database communications,
right?
So we commit at the end and
if something were to happen,
we actually have a function
that allows us to rollback.
So what does that look like?
So here,
if our error does not equal to nil for
whatever reason,
we can simply just return nil and error.
However, we're gonna do
a defer transaction rollback.
So if anything happens in this
function that causes it to just die or
cause anything to error out or
any kind of nasty things,
we can roll back that transaction to
a state before we call this function.
>> Speaker 2: Do you defer on that,
wanted to call regardless
though when X is the function?
>> Melkey: What do you mean?
>> Speaker 2: That's misunderstanding.
So if we defer the rollback.
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: And
then we do the insert statement, right?
Everything goes well, we leave the
function, won't rollback still be called?
>> Melkey: Yeah,
because we have this active transaction,
this tx, we're gonna be using
tx with a bunch of our queries.
So we're gonna use tx dot
query row a few times.
And let's say, in between the two
transactions, if we do two methods on
query row, something happens, it's going
to collect that into the tx struct.
So here, this returns tx,
tx is a struct with all these kind of
things here, and it's gonna kind of
continuously collect any errors in
the status of our transactions.
So when we rollback it's going to
validate, if there's any errors,
if there are it's says no and
nothing essentially happens, but
if it rolls back the transactions
to previous day.
>> Speaker 2: So do you commit
then if there is no error in it-
>> Melkey: Yeah, so
if there is no errors, you'll commit.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, gotcha-
>> Melkey: And
we actually specify that at the end,
we actually have to call tx dot commit.
>> Speaker 2: Gotcha.
>> Melkey: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: All right, thanks.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
here we're gonna get pretty nasty.
We're gonna create query,
we're gonna define our query, okay?
Old school style,
it's not really old school.
Just INSERT INTO workouts and
the values we're gonna pass in are title,
description, duration_minutes,
and calories_burned.
I'm gonna open this up cuz that's
not the only thing I'm gonna be
inserting into this or
writing into the SQL, just like so, okay?
Then I'm gonna pass in the VALUES.
So here post stress notation
uses the money symbol,
$1, $2, $3, and $4.
The reason why it's four is cuz we are
inserting four values, title, description,
duration, minutes, and
calories burned, okay?
And then we want RETURNING
id that's correct, yeah.
So we have our query defined.
Here we're gonna do error is
going to be our transaction,
that tx that we've initialized,
and we're gonna do QueryRow.
And QueryRow is gonna take our query and
all those values,
the four values it expects.
And how do we get those?
Well, they belong on workout.
So workout.Title, workout.Description,
workout.DurationMinutes, and
workout.CaloriesBurned.
And here we need to scan this,
we do a dot method.
So .Scan into the address of
the ID that we wanna scan into,
which is address.workoutID.
I'm gonna zoom out, just everyone can
kinda see the full query function here.
Next always check the error, so
if error does not equal to nil,
we want to just return nil and
the error, all right?
At this point we also need
to insert the entries.
And so how can we do that?
Well, if you remember entries is a slice,
what we can do is for,
ignore the index values cuz we don't care,
entry in range workout.Entries like so.
We now have the ability to gather
the values of every individual
entry that someone may
submit with their response,
with their payloads from the client or
whatever.
So here we can create another
query in line like this.
And we can say INSERT INTO
workout_entries,
and then the values we want to insert
in here is going to be workout_id,
exercise_name, sets,
reps duration_seconds, okay?
Weight, notes and order index.
>> Melkey: Okay, this followed
the same pattern we saw above.
Next, have to pass in the VALUES.
So VALUES, it's gonna be one because
there's eight, workout id, exercise name,
sets, reps, duration, weight, notes, order
index, we have to do this eight times.
>> Melkey: Eight.
>> Melkey: Like so.
And we can also do RETURNING id.
Next thing we gonna do is just
basically execute the query.
We can do err is, again, our transaction,
I'm gonna query this row.
We're gonna pass it this new query and
all of those arguments.
So the first one is workout.ID, and
then all the other ones
belong on the entry struct.
So it can be entry.ExerciseName,
entry.Sets, entry.Reps,
entry.DurationSeconds, entry.Weight,
entry.Notes, and entry.OrderIndex.
>> Melkey: Okay, I'm just gonna zoom out,
I'm gonna zoom back in real quick.
The next thing we need to do is just
scan this into entry.ID like so.
Now last part, check these errors too.
So if error does not equal to nil,
let's go ahead and
return nil and the error, right?
And now, outside of that for loop for when
we're ranging over our workout entries,
here is where we're going to do
error equals transaction.Commit.
So commit commits the transactions for
all of the entries that
we've kinda queued up, okay?
And in here we can do one final check,
if err does not equal to nil,
return nil and err.
And the final return here
to satisfy it all will be
return workout and nil
>> Speaker 3: My LSP is mad at me because
we're not checking if there's an error for
rollback, unless you check
that I didn't get it.
>> Melkey: We check error for
rollback up here and then defer, I mean,
at that point,
this is where we could use something
like just an anonymous function to defer
create error equals tx.rollback if error
does not equal to nil, check that.
I've typically used just for rollback my
LSP, I thought my LSP was pretty picky,
but I'm not getting that error, but-
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
I don't know, that's weird,
maybe it's just mine being odd.
>> Melkey: That's weird mine even was not
saying that, but it's cool that's yours.
Are you using Go PLS?
Wow me too, [LAUGH] okay.
I'm gonna quickly just
scaffold the next function.
We're not gonna put a lot of logic into
this, but we're just gonna make sure that
we have the second function
fulfilling our interface here,
which is called get workout by ID.
So let's quickly just create our function,
make our method receiver
the PostgresWorkoutStore like so, and then
let's call the function GetWorkoutByID.
This function should take an ID of int64,
and it's going to return two things for
us, two types,
our pointer to workout and the error.
And within the function body,
I'm gonna quickly just create a workout,
so just create a new workout like so.
You don't have to put any fields in it,
you can just make it empty.
And then one line below it, let's go ahead
and return the workout and nil, cool.
And the reason why we're doing this is
because of our interface, all right?
Which again, quick reminder,
is defined right here.